# Objects Classes

* Just a trick:
We can use `f` on str so we can reference variables directly inside our string inside curly braces:

`return f"we have{self._name}"`

## Object-oriented programming
Object is a bundle of data and behavior.

From function to objects, we can organize around objects. When code becomes complicated, we can use object to simplify it.

* A class is a template for defining new data types.
* An instance of a class is called an object.
* Each object has data attributes called instance variables that describe its state.
* Each object also has function attributes called methods.

## class

A class can:

* Set the initial values for instance variables.
* Define methods specific to the object, often used to change or report the values of instance variables.

A fully coded class and usage
```py
# Define a new type of data
class Product:

    # Set the initial values
    # the constructe function, which first parameter is the class itself, and others can init its data. When creating a new object, it will call this __init__()
    def __init__(self, name, price, nutrition_info):
        self._name = name
        self._price = price
        self._nutrition_info = nutrition_info
        self._inventory = 0

    # Define methods
    def increase_inventory(self, amount):
        self._inventory += amount

    def reduce_inventory(self, amount):
        self._inventory -= amount

    def get_label(self):
        return "Foxolate Shop: " + self._name

    def get_inventory_report(self):
        if self._inventory == 0:
            return "There are no bars!"
        return f"There are {self._inventory} bars."
```

Product(args) is often called the constructor.

When the constructor is called:

* A new instance of that class is created
* The __init__ method of the class is called with the new object as its first argument (named self), along with any additional arguments provided in the call expression

All object attributes (which includes variables and methods) can be accessed with dot notation:
`pina_bar.increase_inventory(2)`

Instance variables are data attributes that describe the state of an object.

This __init__ initializes 4 instance variables:

The object's methods can then change the values of those variables or assign new variables.
(self其实像是cpp里面的this，在构造时不必显式对体现出来，但是会在函数的构造中起到作用)


**Method invocation**
```py
pina_bar.increase_inventory(2)
class Product:
    def increase_inventory(self, amount):
        self._inventory += amount
```

pina_bar.increase_inventory is a bound method: a function which has its first parameter pre-bound to a particular value.

In this case, self is pre-bound to pina_bar and amount is set to 2.(When use the dot notation, it will bind 'self' to this object, so just input the last parameters)

So, this is another right way:

`Product.increase_inventory(pina_bar, 2)`

Which means "A bound method binds together a function and the object on which it will be called."


**Dynamic instance variables**: An object can create a new instance variable whenever it'd like.

```py
def reduce_inventory(self, amount):
        if (self._inventory - amount) <= 0:
            self._needs_restocking = True
            # In init function, we don't have this variable.
        self._inventory -= amount
```

(Compared with cpp, the python is more flexible in this field)

**Class variables**:

A class variable is an assignment inside the class that isn't inside a method body.

Class variables are "shared" across all instances of a class because they are attributes of the class, not the instance.
(similar to the static variable in cpp class)

When we need to change its value, we use `product.x=xx` (class not one object)

**Attributes are all public**

Python is very casual with access to attributes.

As long as you have a reference to an object, you can set or mutate any attributes. You can even assign new instance variables:

**"Private" attributes**:

To communicate the desired access level of attributes, Python programmers generally use this convention:


* __ (double underscore) before very private attribute names
* _ (single underscore) before semi-private attribute names
* no underscore before public attribute names
